Tyndale hydraulic tool holders a member
of the shunk total tooling family offers
precise tool clamping for universal
applications the Tendo program is
diverse offering advantages to almost
any application high speed machining
milling drilling countersinking reaming
tapping or a tool and cutter grinding
Tendo hydraulic tool holders stand out
from the crowd with flexibility easy
handling and high precision proven
hydraulic expansion technology
exceptional vibration dampening
characteristics provide superior surface
quality highest run-out accuracy and
repeatability simple fast tool change
flexible clamping range using
intermediate sleeves precise actual
length presetting with length adjustment
any common tool shank can be clamped
without restrictions
Tendo advanced clamping technology for
sophisticated high precision machining
with all quality features of shock
the superior accuracy and repeatability
of less than three microns provide long
tool life low vibration less spindle
wear optimize dimensional stability and
surface finish all hydraulic tool
holders are fine balanced as standard
from stock usable up to fifty thousand
rpms and perfectly suited for high speed
machining damaging vibrations caused
during the machining process are
considerably reduced by using Tendo tool
holders less vibrations means less
cutting tool edge degradation to life is
optimized and up times are increased
even surface finish on the workpiece is
improved tools are changed within
seconds insert the tool in the tool
holder
tighten the actuation screw with the
supplied t-handle wrench benefit low
investment maintenance-free no
additional external devices keeping the
manufacturing process running
hydronic expansion technology is simple
by design and proven in thousands of
applications worldwide with Tendo you
simply turn the actuation screw until it
reaches the hard stop hydraulic fluid
applies pressure to compress the
expansion sleeve clamping the cutting
tool the result absolute precise
powerful and centric clamping with
superior run-out characteristics
continuous improvements for Tendo now
allow all types of cutting tool shafts
to be clamped direct without the use of
intermediate slaves
the system is completely closed
preventing contaminant intrusion from
coolants lubricants or chips Tendo is
absolutely maintenance-free
Tendo groove provides a path for oil
grease or coolants to exit during the
clamping process the surface between the
tool and the holder is kept dry and
clean Tendo hydraulic tool holders are
available with a precise axial length
adjustment and with a precise radial
length adjustment as an option the
benefit of the radial pre adjustment is
a quick compensation from the side of
the tool holder for differing two
lengths quick and easy setup equals
lower setup costs
intermediate sleeves can provide even
further flexibility to tendo one tool
holder can be used to clamp several
cutting tool diameters these sleeves are
available for both external coolant or
through the tool core insert the sleeve
insert the tool turn the actuation screw
to it's hard stop ready to use
Tyndale is available with all common
machine interfaces tender offers
specially designed holders for cutting
tool grinding run-out accuracy less than
three microns provides high geometric
accuracy and superior surface quality
the highest precision maximum
flexibility and easy handling is Tendo
benefit from the advanced hydraulic
expansion technology from Zhang